OK, Good morning
everybody an thank
you all for
joining today's call.
I thought this would be a good
opportunity for us to kind of
get together an for, UM, need to
hear some of the tools that we
use to test sites for
Accessibility issues so you
could start using those tools
too. If you like um, and uh, so
that we're kind of all on the
same page when it comes to
debugging issues and sharing
information, so let's jump right
into it. Um?
Before we delve into it, I just
want to say like that great
designers and developers are
inclusive thinking ones, so it
is very important.
Um, uh, that we all test that
work and ensure that it is as
accessible as possible for
everybody. Uh, current estimates
indicate that over 15% of the
population have a disability of
some kind. That's roughly 1
billion people. Or to put it in
a better perspective, this
number is about the size of
China, and I might add in an
effort to get our priorities
straight that this is likely a
much larger number than IE11's
market share. So we haven't been
in moral obligation. Did you?
Are a small part to help folks
out, especially when it applies
to users being able to learn
more about a company and seek
employment there. And are
Speaking of employment. Many, if
not all, of our clients tout
themselves as equal opportunity
employers, so they expect us to
reach 100% of their perspective
candidates, not 85% one
hundreds. Whether we are
specifically asked to do so or
not. and I was like to say that
equal opportunity employment
begins with TMP.
Uh, for developers? Uhm, that
means that every single one of
us must smoke. Tests are work
more frequently. Now this
involves automated and manual
testing. So we'll get
right into it now.
First up some automated tools.
Um? There are several automated
testing tools that I used to
test your sights of. Most common
one that I leverage is a browser
plugin called axe.
By great company called DQ. Many
of the issues that are cited
during testing stem from this
plugin. After this call, I want
all of you to install it and
start using it so that we can
start speaking a common
language. When it comes to
Accessibility issues. Um, I'll
be sharing this presentation
afterwards, so you'll have all
the links that you need to start
downloading this stuff, but I
thought I would just talk about
each tool that I use and then
just give you kind of a brief
demonstration of how it works.
So with X, all you really have
to do after you install it is
inspect your. On your page and
you'll see the X plugin right
here and you just click it on.
And you analyze the page.
And then it comes up with
several issues that could be
potential barriers to access.
Uhm, you can organize the issues
by violations review best
practices. Naturally, violations
are going to be the most
important ones for us to try to
address. Also, I would
definitely focus on those. Um,
it's a nice cool and that you
can, uh, highlight specific
issues. You can inspect the
particular nodes that it's
concerned with if you're not
sure about the issue, they have
a great learning resource on
their site that you can.
Um, go to and learn more about
that particular issue, and if
you're still not sure, you can
always reach out to someone like
me or we're back here or even
Dan Green. And that's pretty
much it. Hum.
Yeah, it's a. It's the, UM, the
issues that its eyes are really
really really good and they're
always saying on top of
Accessibility over there DQ. So
it's really become an invaluable
tool in my toolbox so I use it
frequently. Also comes in a uhm.
Let's jump back here for a
second. Uh, command line flavor
if that's what you're interested
in using, I have to have node
installed on your system before
running it, but once you do have
it running, it's just a simple
matter of typing in acts. Oh,
and this is sometimes the
command line tool is better
because you can pass in multiple
pages. So if I wanted to test
the say, TMP.
Hum. I just type in bash
and then do TPS colon.
Tmp.com slash. I think it's jobs
so and then just, you know you
could paste multiple pages in
there and then it'll run and you
can even output it to a JSON
file or text file.
Give it a second to run.
It Mr T in HTTP.
Sorry I messed up.
Now.
Well, that's interesting.
It looks like it still work
though. Yeah, it probably it
probably did the first one, but
not the second one, but you kind
of get the general idea, but I
won't go into it that much.
I. So that's X axis great.
Definitely use it. Download it
after this column will be very
very happy with it. Um, Next up
is lighthouse. Um?
Are Google Chrome schedules and
close built in auditing tools
besides being able to test for
performance as CEO and best
practices, you can also test for
Accessibility issues. I'm sure
some of you have used lighthouse
already. Some of our clients use
lighthouse and they like to
torture us, but the results, but
it's definitely a good tool and
that could be accessed under
audits. And if you go to audits
and you check off everything
else and you just want to focus
on Accessibility. Then you just
check that one off and run the
audit. And it should produce
some interesting results. Let's
see how TMP does.
Not too bad. Background colors
always an issue.
Add 91%. Don't be lulled into a
false sense of security when you
see some of these numbers you
know you might have a high
number, but as we'll get into
shortly, Accessibility testing
is not a line on just automated
testing. Do you have to do some
manual testing in order to get
more Fuller picture of? You know
the issue just like man have.
Next up is wave. I'm
sure many of you are
familiar with this one. The
wave toolbar plugin.
Produce is pretty solid results.
Access ability can be very
subjective at times, so each
tool in our Arsenal may
interpret what CAD guidelines a
little differently. This is not
necessarily a bad thing though
is I believe it. It's a good.
It's good to always get a second
opinion. When it comes to wave,
uh, there is another sadder
reason why we should test with
this particular tool.
And that is because it has
become a favorite tool for law
firms seeking to scare companies
into their allegation. And
hopefully when a settlement are
so, if we kind of clean in this
tool, we lower the risk of that
happening in the past few years,
like industry has seen a large
uptick in lawsuits. Many of them
are legitimate issues concerning
digital inclusion and
Accessibility, but many are not.
These are often called and I'm
sure you've heard the sound
forge drive by lawsuits with
drive by. Litigation.
So yeah, it's it's some.
It's, uh, it's pretty intense
out there right now, so we have
to be careful. Try to lower risk
for our clients, and using the
wave and getting a result of
zero errors is usually certainly
good for your website. But it
also means you're probably going
to get less less knocks at the
door from lawyers, so we want to
make sure that you're testing
with wave. After the plugin is
installed, uh, it usually. Let's
see where is it here? Yeah, so
it's it's right. It's right up
here. And you just vanish.
Handle passes. You were all over
to the wave toolbar.
And we're coming up good here.
Zero errors, so you always want
to make sure that you're
addressing any errors that you
might find in this tool.
Nice.
Next up.
Um? We have the web developer
toolbar. Ah, the weather to the
toolbar has many useful
Accessibility testing features
in it that we often leverage.
The two issues that I check with
it are headings, an alternative
text values and you might want
to do this too. So let me give
you an example. I'm talking
about. You know, I, I just want
to. I just want to say that I
had. I had trouble finding bad
examples of our websites out
there. You guys are doing. I
just want to tell you that
you're doing a really great job
and certainly. Over the past
couple of years, as we as we
grow and we would sure in this
space where you know definitely
producing much more accessible
sites. So I just want to, like
you know, say that I'm grateful
for all of the work that you
guys do and all the effort that
you put into making your sites
as iaccessible as the day it can
be. If you really shows,
especially when I go looking for
it for a presentation and can't
find anything, it certainly is.
Testament to you know the good
work that you guys are doing, so
keep it up.
Um in in using our this
particular tool here, web
developer toolbar again, this
one's been around for years. I
mean on if you if you open it
up and you click on information
and you go to view document
outline. This is going to give
you a really good view of your
heading levels. Heading levels
are very, very important.
A lot of.
Blind you. To
um? Navigate your site so it's
it's really super important that
we get them right up and this
tool is really good because it
just gives you a nice visual
representation of the outline of
the page and the hierarchy of
the headings that are in place
that you can easily see.
You know that there are some
missing headings Here. In that
page. It needs a little bit more
work, so that's really, really
really useful for Maine.
As a tester on the other thing
that I use for our images.
See jump to briefly on here. We
find a page with a lot of images
on it. 2.
Do a good test here.
Will give this one a shot. OK so
here I would come here and I
would go to images and.
Display all the attributes so
it's Gonna display all the all
attributes on the page. OK.
Images with texting them should
be usually verbatim, so that's
good. This looks like a
background. Well, OK, that's
text alright. So this is good.
This is good. This is all good.
UM, this is just an easy way to
see a. You know if you're
missing anything. OK, now here's
a bad one. Alt equals article
immediately. I would cite that
as an issue.
Uhm, you know that should
probably. This image is probably
more decorative in nature, so it
probably shouldn't have text.
And certainly I'm always looking
for, you know, links and.
It images that are surrounded
by hyperlinks should always be
always have some sort of
functional alternative text
in, so this tool is invaluable
for that and it just allows me
to easily stand the page and
see if there's appropriate.
All text in their missing all
fixed. I'm definitely use this
when you can very very useful.
That's pretty much it when it
comes to automated testing.
There a lot more tools that I
cover here and we have this nice
one called amp, but it's like
really super robust and you guys
really don't need to use amp all
the time. It certainly comes in
handy if you specialize in
Accessibility testing and you're
producing more robust type of
recording, but the tools that I
just outlined here are really
all you need to get a general
sense for. You know what's going
on. With your code, so you could
use them in your day-to-day
work. That would be absolutely
fantastic. Next step we have.
Manual testing. And when it
comes to colours, colours are a
big issue in our work because
they often suffer from low
contrast, low visibility, low
bad legibility when it comes to
text. So we have to be mindful
of this and a great tool out
there is one that I use called.
Color. Contrast analyzer, you
can download it and run it on
your site. You can go in and
select colors which is useful
and then you'll immediately see
if it's going to pass certain
guidelines where this tool comes
in. Particularly useful is for
cops, cops when you're getting
costs when you're getting PDF
and Jpeg's to check for
Accessibility issues. Ideally
you would love to have the PS DS
at that point so you can go in
and see which colors that
actually using, but this is
served me pretty well when it
comes to just testing comp, so
I'm able to get the comp and if
I'm looking at it and I see that
something looks off I just, you
know, kind of pull this out and.
Start selecting colors to see if
they're going to be an issue
later on. So very very useful.
Definitely use it. You can even
test stuff in photo shop. You
already have that. Just give you
a brief. Example here
what I'm talking about.
Here we have a mock up for
massage envy and there are a
couple of things that you can do
in photo shop too.
See there gonna be any contrast
issues? One of the things that's
Super Duper easy to do is go
to image and go to.
Modan simply throw it into
grayscale alright? Yeah yeah
Yeah Alright. So when you throw
something into grayscale
immediately, you'll be able to
get a general sense for you
know. For 4904 ground text over
background text, it might
potentially be an issue here,
even though the font size is
big, could still potentially be.
Problem you know here, maybe
you know. So you know it's it's
so simple to do, you know. And
then you know you bring this
stuff back to the team and
hopefully will change it. Uh,
another thing that you can do in
photo shop. Here is you
can uhm. You can, uh,
for shop has a little known
technique to prove comps for
common forms of color blindness,
such as. Duterte Nokia, I
can't pronounce that that's a
tough one, an protanopia.
The you just go to view and you
go to proof. Set up an you just
select one of these and it will
throw it into you know.
No, it will change the colors to
how you know somebody with color
blindness might be viewing it.
And also this is so doing that
will tip you off too.
Potential contrast issues, so
definitely definitely utilize
those features in Photoshop
language can. My jumping back
too much impact in browser here
Next up. Um, let's jump back to
Chrome for a minute.
Um?
If you inspect your code, uh,
let's say you inspect they
let's. Let's take a look at this
button here. Uh, it's a link.
Pretty easy. Um?
In Chrome, there's a. There's a
tab here called Accessibility,
and this is like really useful
and that'll give you a lot of
extra information about your
particular elements. Uhm, this
is was a bad selection. Let me
select something else here.
OK, Alright so I selected the
button. Uhm, there's no Aria,
um, uh, attributes on it. It
will tell me what the text node
is, which is something we always
want to. Uh, ensure that is
present. You know, if I had a
button that like say a menu
button and I was testing it, and
you know I can jump over to the
Accessibility tab and I could
immediately see if the contents
of that has some kind of proper
labeling on it, you know.
Certainly icons and buttons and
things of that nature. You
always want to make sure that
you have an equivalent there,
but. Hide that text or you know,
use Aria label on the element is
very very important to have some
kind of text equivalent there.
So a tool like this will allow
you to easily see that you can
see what kind of role is on it.
You can see if it's a focusable
element or not, so it's very,
very useful in analyzing.
Elements on your page so
definitely use that when you
can. And then a lesson. At
least I'm on my way to 2nd.
That's next next to last.
We have screen readers Uhm you
guys uh. He asking me, there's a
pretty important, uh, the
Accessibility team uses various
screen readers to test our work.
It's very important to listen to
your work. Uh, if you want to
truly empathize somebody who's
blind or who has low vision and
then you have to use the tools
they use to navigate your site.
You just you have to do it OK on
the PC we use jaws, an NDA which
is free and easy to install.
And on the Mac amount we have,
there's the built in voice over
that. A lot of blind folks use
called voiceover. It's built
into the operating system and
you can turn it on very easily
by hitting Command F5.
And then you can start walking
through your work, right? You
should listen to your work on
multiple browsers. Uhm, but if
time is short then only you know
when you scream meter over 5 Fox
as this is the most preferred
browser of many disabled users.
When you're walking through, you
know, let's fire up the screen
reader right now.
Let's go to.
Anybody want to be brave enough
to? How 'bout, how 'bout
hammons, right do uh?
Apartments, I'm sorry.
Put Erika on the spot.
So let's fire it up.
Walk through it.
Well, not working.
Yes. Top international document
clickable link it to make
content. Company profits visited
link link. About
you.
Division. I
would help. It's with four
liter with a thought he was
headed that country song.
Cool. Asking too many
problems here, but what you
wanna pay? Pay particular
attention to want to pay
particular attention to
interactive elements that maybe
that may not be labeled
properly. They might have
incorrect rolls or states. For
example, visual buttons with
missing text, links, linked
images with missing alternative
texts, alink with a roll value
of a button. You know what you
convey visually must also
convey. Auditore Lee so you
wanna make sure that you're
listening very, very carefully
for you know how you know
elements on the page,
interactive elements in
particular are read back to you
and you're looking. You trying
to create as as equal an
experience as you possibly can.
So labeling stuff is like super
important. And you can also use
your screen reader. You can use
it as an opportunity to see if
your interface would benefit
from additional enhancements
that can be found in our area.
For example adding. See, you
might have a toggle and you
might say, Well, you know why
this would be better if I if I
did something like Aria expanded
to it to convey the state of the
button button opening and
closing. You know, so you know,
conveying some vital information
to someone who is blind is, you
know, can make real huge impact
on the experience that they
have. So pay attention to stuff
like that you know, be careful
not to go overboard with Aria's
misuse can make your interface
less iaccessible. The first rule
of Aria as not to use it at all.
Meaning that one should always
leverage more inherent semantics
found in HTML.
Open.
Active X. Sorry about
that yeah. So yeah, use always
use semantic HTML instead of
using a device like A roll of
Button Anna Tabindex, you might
want to use a button instead, so
keep that stuff in mind as
you're developing the next thing
up. Is a keyboard testing
keyboard testing is like super
easy to do. You can even combine
it with your screen reader
testing if you want about it
really is just a simple matter
of walking through your
interface and OK.
I've been walking through it,
use it, don't use the mouse, put
the mouse down and you know just
walked through OK.
Visually, I'm I'm seeing
outlines here. That's awesome.
Alright, this is great. You
know, with my keyboard. Uhm, I
can. I can, you know I can
access a drop down navigation.
You know you want to make sure
that especially anything that
you can do with the mouse you
want to be able to do with a
keyboard. There again this
ability. It's all about creating
equivalencies, so this is like a
really easy testable form.
Yeah, that's that's, uh,
something that you can be
should definitely be doing. By
the way, this is a Harman
site. Looks pretty great
America. Are you on the phone?
I am thank you.
Yeah, this is coming out really
really well. Good cool alright?
So are and then you know
laughing at least we have.
Visual testing. Which I forgot
to change my last slide. Shame
on main, but visual testing is
about knowing what to look for.
You know, pay attention to
details. Contrast OK, not sure
without the color contrast
analyzer mentioned above. Do all
videos have captions? Are the
captions actress would be
experienced benefit from a
transcript? Are we spawning new
Windows without warning and you
guys know all know how I feel
about that one? Does third party
content or tools on our site?
Uh, you know, you know?
The third party content creating
barriers to access. You know
these are all issues that you
should be looking for in paying
and paying attention to, and you
know bring these issues up with
your DPM or your manager and you
know the more we advocate the
more Accessibility becomes a
priority and a part of our
culture. You know that's what we
all want and it's really the
only way that we can succeed at
becoming a more inclusive
company in the future. So the
more we bring it up the better.
These tools that I just
mentioned here are like the bare
minimum of tools needed to
address the most common
Accessibility issues aside made
face. As you become more
proficient with using these
tools, they will eventually
become second nature to you.
Fixing issues is another problem
altogether though, and I
certainly understand that
development is a spectrum of
talents. Some developers will be
more adept at fixing
Accessibility issues, while
others may struggle, and that's
OK. You know nobody expects you
to be an expert here.
As you uncover barriers to
access, just do the best that
you can to address any issues
that you uncover. And if you hit
a real stumper then you know
feel free to reach to developers
with more proficiency in this
area. In a war, we're all here
to help, and you know better one
another moving forward. So
that's. For today.
I would like to open the floor
for any questions.
When it comes
to the navigation
with your keys.
Are there preferences like
everyone does tabs right, but
when you do, a NAV menu is
ideal to also navigate with like
arroz. I I see that as more
well, again, you know you have
to send Accessibility is a
little bit subjective now, but
you-know-what, uhm, I think if
you can use an arrow key there
too you know too.
Move through the navigation,
then do it. I don't think you
have to. I think the disabled
web is probably very used to,
you know, simply being able to
tab through a certain.
Interfaces and you know? I think
that's all we need to focus on
right now, but I am not opposed
to seeing you guys. You know, go
above and beyond to improve the
way an interface works for
keyboard users. If you can do
it. If not I don't think it's
going to be a big concern if you
don't add that type of
enhancement into the interface.
OK. In the past, like
user testing for visual users,
but have we had a chance to
explore testing some of our
Accessibility stuff with actual.
You know, for example like blind
users, that is a great question.
No, we haven't, and I think
that's a real.
A shortcoming of.
Of our, you know testing
practices here. I would love to,
you know, take the opportunity
to do that and that's something
that would. I would love to
explore more in the future.
Have to be honest with you
though, we don't do regular
usability. Yeah, so I I it's
very difficult to try to get
actual disabled folks to use our
interfaces, but I am certainly
not opposed to it at all. I
would love to see it happen and
maybe in the future we can see
it happen. Will see.
I spell gotta question.
It's actually a Raven,
Raven. When I tried to test
like tab navigation for
navigating via tab with fire
Fox. Possible, I like doing it
wrong because I've never been
successful. It only works for me
in Chrome really. I would love
to see an example of the issue
that you're having there.
I'll get a recording of it and
I'll shoot you an email. Yeah,
shoot me an email. I would
definitely like to see that it's
very, very possible that you
could be having specific browser
issue there, but let's look into
that little bit more.
Thank you.
Any other questions?
OK, well you guys know where to
reach me. I if you do have any
questions I will send out this
slide deck right after the call
and you know just.
Uh, yeah. If you can start using
some of these tools in your
day-to-day work, that would be
fantastic. I just also want to
let you know that you know Dan
and I really think that QA needs
to be involved more in testing.
And certainly you know, really,
you know when it comes to
Accessibility. For the longest
time, uh. We had made it more
of a developer responsibility,
an I've had a long time to think
about this and really, you know,
the only way that we can again
that we can succeed succeed at
this more is if everybody is
doing their part and QA in my
mind really has to learn a bit
more about testing using some of
these tools here and testing for
Accessibility. And we're
certainly going to work on that,
so I'm working on a training for
them now, so you may be
hopefully by the end of the
summer we will have completed
that training. You guys will
start seeing more Accessibility
issues come through during
normal testing, but certainly we
all have a part to play in this.
And you know, I think if
development is doing their part
to smoke test to work in, QA is
doing their part to.
You know, test more thoroughly
and more inclusively that you
know our work is just going to
get more and more better, and
certainly that's a good thing
for the end user. But from a
competitive standpoint, it's
also really good thing that
we're thinking about this kind
of stuff as far as laws go,
people ask me about that a lot,
you know, do we have to do this?
And certainly when it comes to
private and public sector.
Websites were under no.
A lot to do this type of thing,
but it behooves us to, you know.
Build a better experience for
people you know. It's it better
and you know for so many reasons
you know when you build a more
inclusive experience. You also
building a better experience for
everybody, whether they're
disabled or not. So you know,
from from from Usability
perspective, it's good from a
business perspective. It's good.
May come to a point where you
know the Department of Justice
eventually. You know it does say
that you know websites fall
under the Americans with
Disability Act and that website
owners have to take
responsibility and you know get
their sites into.
You know good standing, you know
so that there so that more
people can use them. and I
certainly think that will
happen. Hope it will happen
within the next few years, but
so you know with all of this
effort that you see for me and
that others here and pushing
Accessibility more. You know, I
just want to see us get to a
point. You know, when that does
eventually happened, Tempe is
going to be, you know, well
situated. And in a.
You know a really good place
when it comes to inclusive best
practices and and you know it's
going to be like really easy for
us to deal with that situation
when it does happen. So that's
where we're kind of headed with
this. I'm not looking to boil
the oceans, as Linda Hardin
likes to say to me all the time
spell don't you can't boil the
oceans, so I'm not looking to do
that, but progressively, and,
you know, taking baby steps to
get us thinking a little bit
more inclusively is what I'm all
about and trying to.
You know, see us.
Achieve more in our day-to-day
work, so will get there
eventually, and you know that's
pretty much it. So thank you for
listening, and if you have any
questions about any of these
tools or any of the results that
these tools produce again, just
reach out to me and Rebecca and
then it would be more than happy
to walk you through the problem
and help you figure this stuff
out so that we're building
better. User interfaces for
everybody. That's it, thanks.
Thank you spell. Thank you very
much. Thank you very thank you.